Recently, pricing power has been a bit
reduced coming out of COVID where we saw
a real surge in demand and and a surge
in pricing. So, the market now is
absorbing that over the past couple
years. We suspect that you'll see that
that resume a healthy upward trajectory.
Not necessarily dramatic, but healthy
over the next year or so.
Hi everyone, I'm Miriam Gotthried and
this is WSJ's take on the week. This
week we have another batch of earnings
coming up and among them are some big
travel and leisure companies like
Marriott and Airbnb. Our guest today is
somebody who has a lot of insight into
that market. We have Eric Resnik, CEO of
KSL Capital Partners, which is a private
equity firm that invests in travel and
leisure. Hi Eric.
>> Hi Miriam. Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for being on. Can you give us a
quick overview of your strategy and the
kinds of assets you like to own?
>> Um, as you said, we invest exclusively
in travel and leisure. We've been doing
so for gosh over 30 years at this point.
We tend to focus on the mass affluent
consumer. Um but you know our hotel
investments as an example span select
service hotels to some of the world's
most exclusive ultra luxury resorts. But
the way we look at travel and leisure
about half of its hospitality investing
the other half is split up between
various recreation uh clubs and real
estate businesses. So think of that as
golf courses, health clubs, ski resorts,
restaurants, um you know, and the like.
So we do and we do so globally.
>> Within leisure, there's the divide
between sort of the budget traveler and
the luxury traveler and the people in
between. And then there's also corporate
travel. How are each of those segments
doing right now? Like in this
environment,
>> if you look at corporate versus leisure
travel, you know, leisure travel
definitely is kind of the that's the
anchor in the travel industry. Leisure
travel tends to be very consistent.
Corporate travel tends to be a bit more
cyclical. Um, and I think people
sometimes overstate the cyclicality of
the industry as a whole because of uh of
corporate travel. But importantly, on a
global basis, corporate travel is about
20% of total travel demand. Now, what
we're seeing now is that corporate
travel actually is rebounding quite
robustly this year. In fact, our
corporate travel demand across our
hotels is growing faster this year than
our leisure demand. But that's the
natural consequence of leisure travel
that came back so robustly in 21 and 22
into 23 and corporate travel that really
took until about 23 to really get going.
So we're still recapturing some of that
previous corporate travel demand and I
think that's why you've seen a bit of an
acceleration there. So, as you look at
companies like Marriott or Hilton Grand
Vacations or Airbnb, which segments of
the market do each of those target and
what will you be listening for on their
earnings calls?
>> They're each a bit different. If you
look at Marriott, they're they're of
course very global. I think they are,
you know, understanding what's what
they're seeing by chain class. So, what
are they seeing in their for Revpar, you
know, the unit of measure in our
industry, revenue per available room.
What are they seeing in the luxury
sector versus what are they seeing in
the select service sector? But what I'd
be most looking for is what's the what's
the forward outlook? What are they
seeing in advanced bookings for groups
or otherwise across the system? What are
they seeing in uh systemwide uh um new
hotel openings? And I suspect we'll see
that there's quite a robust pipeline
there. But in this environment, I'm a
little bit more suspect as to how
quickly, you know, those pipeline assets
will turn into actual construction
starts just because of the availability
of construction financing and
construction costs right now.
>> Well, getting into construction costs, I
mean, it seems like construction costs
are really high right now. What does it
take to construct a new hotel these
days?
>> Unfortunately, I would say every aspect
of constructing a new hotel is hard. So
you start with it's about finding land,
buying land, it's about the underlying
entitlements and getting approvals. And
then it's about the actual construction,
right? All of that before you actually
talk about consumer absorption of the
new hotel. And if you think about those
three areas, they're all harder than
they've probably ever been. Land is
scarcer, land is more expensive,
construction financing is more
expensive, and approvals, generally
speaking, from a regulatory perspective,
have gotten harder, not easier. So
understandably, communities are, you
know, not o not always running towards
wanting to build new hotels, but at the
same time, there's increasing demand and
prospects for increase in demand over
time. And so, you know, you certainly do
need some new supply to be able to
accommodate that in many leisure markets
around the world or urban markets.
>> But the difficulties that you're
describing mean that revenue per
available room is probably going to be
higher because there aren't that many
available rooms being built.
>> Yeah. Yeah. fundamentally I if you look
at the industry over a long time horizon
we've generally had supply growth of
about 1 and a half to 2% per year you
know compounded for decades and demand
growth of you know say half a point to a
point point and a half ahead of that
today you see supply growth that's
something that really frankly rounds to
zero now which is interesting because
you've got these very large pipelines
that the public hotel companies the
hotel brands have and so but they're
spread out over a very you know large
geographic area and a large existing
room base so when we look at the
nearterm pipeline for supply and you can
you know where shovels are in the
ground. You know, we're expecting that
to be somewhere between zero and half a
percent per year as you look out over
the next three and four years which is
where you have kind of the most clarity
and so that should mean that you're
going to start to see a bit more pricing
power in the industry and I think
accelerated repar growth because that's
a tailwind. Um recently pricing power
has been a bit reduced coming out of co
where we saw a real surge in demand and
and a surge in pricing. So the market
now is absorbing that over the past
couple years. We suspect that you'll see
that that resume a healthy upward
trajectory, not necessarily dramatic,
but healthy over the next year or so.
>> You expect to see stronger demand
outside the US, I believe. And why is
that?
>> Well, I'd say this year specifically,
what we've seen is stronger
international demand uh than you have in
the US. Hilton's earnings reiterated
that. Our own data shows that we're up
about this year we're up oh about 7% or
so in revenues this year in 2025. So I
think that's happening for a couple of
reasons. One um is that there's there's
still tremendous desiraability for uh
you know American travelers to go to
places like Italy, France, Spain on
summer holiday. Some of those
international markets frankly are coming
off of low bases of travel. So they're
accelerating quite a bit. And in the US
you have some headwinds. I think um the
tariff announcements created uncertainty
uh in the market and that created some
consumer hesitancy. We saw our booking
volume going into the tariffs be about
you know give or take 9 10%. We saw that
come down a few points with the tariffs
or a little bit more than that and then
rebound as we went through the summer
and consumers I think realized that okay
that the the outcome of this is not
going to be quite as impactful as
perhaps people thought in April. So I
think there's just some of that noise.
you've seen a reduction in international
travel to the US. It's not a huge number
in the scale of the overall hospitality
industry. It's kind of a singledigit
percentage. Um but it it's still
marginally impactful, more impactful in
places um you know that tend to have
more international demand like like the
coasts.
>> Okay, Eric. So we talked about um
Marriott, but we haven't gotten into uh
Hilton Grand Vacations and Airbnb. What
do you what do you see in those
businesses?
Well, I think in in contrast to
Marriott, Hill vacation and Airbnb are
really primarily focused on the leisure
consumer and the leisure consumer, you
know, is is the part of the market that
we think has the the best resiliency and
the best long-term demand outlook. So,
um certainly that doesn't speak to what
will happen with earnings next week. I
don't I don't have a particular
perspective on that, but I would be
looking for, you know, the same type of
information that we talked about from
Marriott. What are they seeing in
forward bookings? what was their revar
breakout between um you know geographic
segments andor kind of chain scale if
you will it's a little different you
know but you still have higherend
properties versus lower-end properties
for both Airbnb as well as uh for hill
and grand vacations so ultimately I
think those businesses are positioned
really well because they they sit
squarely at the intersection of where
the consumer uh wants their travel
experiences to be which is you know high
levels of experiential travel
multigenerational
travel um and in some cases longer stays
that are facilitated by more remote work
and people want perhaps larger
accommodations for that. So whether it's
a time share or vacation rental um
either way you know they cater to that
segment quite well
>> they cater to your segment right
>> they cater to the mass affluent segment
some cater more to as we say the more
affluent side of mass affluent and some
cater a bit more to [snorts] the mass
side of of mass affluent but the nice
thing about vacation club ownership and
we're in that business too we own
holiday and uh club vacations the nice
part about that segment is that they
provide an accessible price point for
people to come in and and access those
types of properties in a wide variety of
leisure oriented markets. And so, you
know, we we we participate in that
segment and we think it's a really
attractive one.
>> So, can we go back and um define what
mass affluent means um in the KSL
definition?
>> Sure. I'd say we think of that as the
top 10% or so of income earners. So,
think of that as uh six figure household
incomes kind of mid, you know, 100 to
$200,000 per year with a college degree.
I mean that would be your proto
prototypical mass affluent consumer.
>> Consumer sentiment, you know, held
steady in October, but it's still near
historic lows. We have high inflation
and hiring has slowed. H how does that
pessimism translate into the travel
industry if at all?
>> Well, we survey consumers around the
globe on their intentions to travel. And
interestingly um in the next year we we
asked the question of basically what do
you int do you intend to spend more or
less on travel over the course of the
next year and where does travel rank in
your priorities of spending and from
India and China to the US travel ranks
number one in the consumer desiraability
uh in terms of where they want to spend
money and virtually all markets expect
to spend more on travel. I don't mean
because of prices I mean because they
want to do more of it in the coming year
than they did the last year. So I don't
think that broader consumer de sentiment
data frankly is what we're seeing in the
travel industry in particular. If you
think about it at its simplest, if
people are stressed out, what do they
want to do? They want to go on vacation.
If people are really happy, what do they
want to do? They want to celebrate. They
want to go on vacation. So I think
there's kind of a a bit, not to be flip
about it, but I think there's a bit of
an innate desire for exploration and for
connection. And travel provides that.
Experiential travel provides that. And
that's what we see. What about the um
hesitancy of people to travel to the US?
Does that affect your business at all?
>> When we look at our trends this year, um
we're down in travel from Canada and
from international markets a bit. We're
up in our international businesses, but
overall when we look across our
portfolio, we're up give or take 8% in
revenues for the year and about 14 15%
in IBIDA. So, we've had a very healthy
year and I suspect that, you know,
that's similar actually to our trends
last year and I suspect next year we'll
actually be equal, if not better.
>> We're going to take a quick break and
when we come back, we'll have more with
Eric Resnik from KSL Capital Partners.
A number of the big hotel companies no
longer own their own real estate, right?
Um, and that that's affected their stock
prices. Um, and it there's been sort of
a a divergence in the ones that own real
estate and the ones that don't own real
estate. Can you talk a little bit about
why that's happened and what you think
about that divergence?
>> That divergence has happened over the
last 30 years. Put aside performance for
a second. I mean, the the genesis of
that was, you know, operators and brand
companies, you know, have evolved to be
loyalty businesses, distribution
businesses in addition to operators and
brand businesses. and the real estate
owning entities have have bifurcated
from that the hotel reads and so forth.
You what we see is there's a real
benefit to us from frankly doing both.
So we tend to be an owner operator. We
tend to operate our own hotels. We own
those hotels typically and we'll partner
with the brands. We partner with many of
the brands um to provide distribution
and branding services under typically a
brand franchise arrangement. And so, you
know, for us, that allows us to get the
best benefit of access to the brand when
we're using the brand, but also be able
to kind of align our interest between,
you know, owning the real estate and
operating it. I think over time, the
public markets have rewarded the brand
companies in particular because they're
capital light. They've got these large
system pipelines that provide unit
growth and they have they've been, you
know, frankly proliferating brands,
right? There's so many more brands out
there than there used to be and they
have found a way to tailor those brands
to individual customer segments to
basically meet the customer where they
are and I think that's been really
successful. They've also evolved the
brands to appeal to real estate owners
who want to continue to operate the real
estate or to cater to real estate owners
who say I want to take a hands-off
approach. Can you take this off my hands
and manage it for me? and overlaying all
of it, the brand companies, the hotel
companies have done a tremendous job
building out their loyalty programs. So
whether it's World of Hyatt or Marriott
Bonvoy or Hilton Honors, I mean, they're
they're they're incredible um their
incredible uh loyalty programs giving
value to the customer. And so um you
know, virtually every every brand,
including the international ones, of
course, Intercontinental and Acor, are
doing the same thing. And and that's
been really positive for the brand. So I
think that's helped fuel that. But
fundamentally there is a real value to
owning real estate. It just you know not
every investor is looking to own the
actual real estate. But it it's lower
risk. It's highly tax efficient. Um and
you know for us if you if you control
the operations as well as owning the
real estate it allows you to generate
excess cash flow from that real estate.
We find um because of that that
controlling all the levers of value
creation. And if as a public markets
investor I wanted to own the real
estate, what's the best way to do that?
>> Well, the hotel REITs provide a great
opportunity to do that. There's a whole
host of the hotel rates. I certainly
don't have favorites over over others,
but you know, they have different
strategies and and that's a great way to
own hotel real estate. I think
increasingly you're likely to see that,
you know, there's private market ways
for investors to play those those
markets as well. So a lot of people say
travel is cyclical and we you kind of
got into this at the beginning of our
conversation but you disagree with that
broad characterization. Uh can you talk
a little bit more about why you disagree
with that? Well, I think we define
Sicily of travel because we think about
that large hotel in an urban market
where, you know, we tend to live and we
say, "Oh gosh, business travel that
fills that hotel, you know, five or five
days a week or so." That that travel
goes away the second that, you know, a
CEO of a business sends out that email
that we all have versions of that says,
"Hey, times are tight. Tighten your
belt. Cut non-essential spending." And
look, often business travel is the very
epitome of non-essential spending. And
doing things like this, right, video
conferencing or Zoom or, you know, etc.,
makes that easier to cancel that last
minute business trip. But if you think
about that as it pertains to leisure
travel, it's just not the same, right?
You don't take a Zoom vacation that you
I don't think we're doing that. We're
not doing an we're not doing a virtual
beach holiday.
>> That doesn't sound very fun. No, it's
not fun. And you know, until until a
virtual holiday equals a real holiday,
you know, I think you're going to
continue to see this trend where leisure
travel is remarkably resilient.
>> How has social media affected the travel
industry?
>> Social media has had a tremendous
positive effect on the travel industry.
If you look at your your social media
feed, it's far more about experiences
than it is about material goods. And the
number one experience that people think
of that they post about, frankly, is
travel, right? Right? It's you having
climbed that mountain. It's you uh you
know on the golf course. It's you in the
park. It's you at the Lou. It's it's you
in New York City at the great
restaurant. Whatever it might be. It's
not you going shopping at the mall. And
that is both leading and a indicator of
the trend that we've seen in favor of
the experiential economy over the
material goods economy that frankly
started 60 years ago and we've seen
compound growth in travel of 7% for 60
years as a result. And I think social
media only makes that growth more
accelerated because you look at
Instagram as an example and what you're
seeing is a is a are aspirational videos
and photos, you know, of where what do I
want to do and where do I want to go and
travel's at the epicenter of that. So
whether it's Instagram or Tik Tok or
whatever your preferred platform is, I
think it's nothing but good for travel
and it's going to continue to be.
>> Thanks, Eric. We're going to take a
quick break and when we come back, we
have one more question for Eric Resnik.
>> [music]
>> Okay, Eric, in 30 seconds or less, is
the rise of AI good or bad for the
travel industry?
>> The rise of AI is nothing but good for
the travel industry. AI is going to make
it easier for us to plan our trips. And
frankly, those travel providers who are
most well suited to provide the
experience you want are going to be the
ones that are surfaced by AI as
recommendations. So, I think if you're a
highquality travel operator, AI is
nothing but good. I think, frankly,
it'll allow you to connect directly to
your customer more quickly. And anything
that allows you to get to your customer
directly, we think is a real positive.
>> So, we aren't going to be taking AI
vacations anytime soon.
>> I don't think so. We once did an
advertising campaign that showed uh
people in New York City with their their
feet in like a sand bucket holding a
like a martini or a margarita in their
hand with virtual goggles on. that was
showing them on the beach. And I think
we we learned from that that, you know,
as cool as that was, it didn't
substitute for having your your feet in
the sand, you know, in Jamaica or Cancun
or or Cabo, right? It's just it's just
not the same thing. So, I don't think
it's I don't think the AI vacation is
going to threaten us anytime soon.
>> Thank you so much, Eric. This
conversation has made me realize I need
to go on a vacation.
[laughter and gasps]
>> I hope you join us.
>> I hope we we we can help provide that.
So um no it's uh it's pleasure being
with you Miriam. Thanks for the time.
[music]
>> [music]